---
title: Maps of Life
author: Bubbles
date: 2026-01-07
category: essay
price_cents: 0
tags:
  - life advice
  - philosophy
excerpt: Maps of Life is a collection of life observations on maps and how they work.
---

Maps of Life
by Bubbles

1. If you know the place, you don't need a map. But don't be so quick to take pity on map-people. Don't say, "Those poor souls looking at the map, don't they know... ?" You either have a map from birth (are you responsible for it?) or you were a map user too until you knew the place. 
2. If you enter a new place, it may or may not have a map. You can't expect a map, sorry.  
3. If it doesn't have a map, you might be far away. In that case, you need to create your own map, if you don't want to get lost.
4. You might want to get lost. You may even say I want to be lost and never return. It's okay to get lost temporarily. Your attitude will change the second you're truly lost. You'll wish you were back. 
5. If you make your own map, be prepared to destroy and create it again, but not before you got lost with your own map. 
6. The best way to get lost, is to believe you know where you're going. 
7. If it has a map, you can trust it, in the sense that somebody mapped it out for you and tried to communicate it with you 
8. If it has a map, you cannot trust it, because the signs may have fallen down, turned sideways, or simply disappeared
9. Reading maps is its own map. Should you follow the map this time, or not? What map do you use to make this decision?
10. If you don't see a map, and you don't know the place, you don't know where you are. You don't know if you're lost or on track. You're in quantum super-position, good luck. Best just to think positive and expect your destination.
11. Having a destination does not preclude you arriving somewhere else. You can see it on the map, study the traffic flows and highways, and even calculate your arrival time, but you will still end up somewhere else. 
12. If you see wary travelers stranded on the path, studying a map in panic, and you know the place, do interrupt them and ask where they're going. Don't be shy, you're traveled. 
13. Don't be upset when the second you learn the map and you don't need to travel that route anymore It still strengthened your maps ability and is applicable to future maps. 
14. Ultimately, there is one single map that unifies all maps. 

Good luck navigating your maps, every body. 