---
title: Maps of Life
author: Joseph Malicke
date: 2026-01-07
category: essay
price_cents: 0
tags:
  - life advice
  - philosophy
excerpt: Maps of Life is a collection of life observations on maps and how they work.
---

People, here is what I have learned about maps:

1. If you know the place, you don't need a map. But don't be so quick to take pity on map-people. Don't say, "Those poor souls looking at the map, don't they know... ?" You either have a map from birth (are you responsible for it?) or you were a map user too until you knew the place. 

2. Once you know the place, you will see all maps are incorrect in some, or many ways. Even the best maps are fundamentally distorted, broken, or missing critical information. Artisans will always disagree on the proper map, though they know the same place. 

3. If you enter a new place, it may or may not have a map. You can't expect a map, sorry.  

4. If it doesn't have a map, you might be far away. In that case, you need to create your own map, if you don't want to get lost.

5. You might want to get lost. You may even say I want to be lost and never return. It's okay to get lost temporarily. Your attitude will change the second you're truly lost. You'll wish you were back. 

6. It's exciting, and dangerous, to push on the threshold of being truly lost. The greater the danger, the greater the excitement. Tread carefully. 

7. If you make your own map, be prepared to destroy and create it again, but not before you got lost with your own map, many times. 

8. Expect to have the wrong map, use it and get lost, many times. 

9. Expect to have the correct map, use it and still get lost, many times. 

10. The best way to get lost, is to believe you know where you're going. 

11. If it has a map, you can trust it, in the sense that somebody has been there before you, mapped it out for you, and tried to communicate it with you. 

12. If it has a map, you cannot trust it, because the signs may have fallen down, turned sideways, or simply disappeared. The place may have changed and the map wasn't updated.

13. Scouting ahead can save your life. 

14. If you think you know where you're going, you can scout ahead anyways. The risk is you confirm your map, and the benefit is you eliminate failure.

15. If you think you know where you're going, you can skip scouting, and go for it. The benefit is you get there sooner, and the risk is you fail easier

16. If you don't know where you're going, you can scout. This is probably wise. Why wouldn't you?

17. If you don't know where you're going, you can skip scouting. You only live once. Good luck. 
 
18. Reading maps is its own map. Should you follow the map this time, or not? What map do you use to read maps?

19. If you don't see a map, and you don't know the place, you don't know where you are. You don't know if you're lost or on track. You're in quantum super-position. Best just to think positive and expect your destination.

20. Having a destination does not preclude you from arriving somewhere else. You can even see it on the map, study the traffic flows and highways, and calculate your arrival time, but you will still end up somewhere else. 

21. If you see wary travelers stranded on the path, studying a map in panic, and you know the place, do interrupt them and ask where they're going. Don't be shy, you're traveled. 

22. Don't be upset when the second you learn the map that you don't need to travel that route anymore. It still strengthened your map-ability and is applicable to future traveling. 

23. If you're lost, and you find your destination, you might discover you were lost for a purpose. Easy!

24. If you're lost, and you find your destination, you might not discover why you were lost. You can try to figure it out, or find peace in not knowing why. Not knowing why you were lost doesn't mean you believe your lostness wasn't purposeful. It just means you don't know why it was, and you're at peace with that. 

25. Ultimately, there is one single map that unifies all maps. 

Good luck navigating your maps, everybody. 

~joEy the traveler
